README.md, before:

<img src="images/DBTestCompare.png" alt="DBTestCompare" width="200">

**Application to compare results of two SQL queries** 

[![Build Status](https://dev.azure.com/DBTestCompare/Build/_apis/build/status/ObjectivityLtd.DBTestCompare)](https://dev.azure.com/DBTestCompare/Build/_build?definitionId=1&_a=summary)
[![Azure DevOps tests](https://img.shields.io/azure-devops/tests/DBTestCompare/Build/1?compact_message)](https://dev.azure.com/DBTestCompare/Build/_build?definitionId=1&_a=summary)


It reads tests definitions in XML format form [specified directory](https://github.com/ObjectivityLtd/DBTestCompare/tree/master/test-definitions) and than runs them (as TestNG test). 

If two SQL returns different results -> test fails. 

Application [supports TeamCity](https://github.com/ObjectivityLtd/DBTestCompare/wiki/Real-time-test-execution-progress-in-TeamCity) Service Messages ([##teamcity messages](https://confluence.jetbrains.com/display/TCD8/Build+Script+Interaction+with+TeamCity)) so if teamcityLogsEnabled is set to "true" (config file or command line parameter), you will see nice test tree in TeamCity logs.

To execute tests run program (Java 8 must be installed first (JDK or JRE)):

If you set JAVA_HOME variable:
```
java -jar DBTestCompare-1.0-SNAPSHOT-jar-with-dependencies.jar
```

or e.g.
```
"C:\Program Files\Java\jdk1.8.0_92\bin\java" -jar DBTestCompare-1.0-SNAPSHOT-jar-with-dependencies.jar
```

Application provides following features:
- **Platform independence** - possibility to run on Windows and Linux as well (Java Runtime Environment 8 needed)
- Supports **all databases with JDBC drivers provided** (tested with Microsoft SQL Server, Teradata, Snowflake, PostgreSQL and MySQL\MariaDB)
- Supports **all Continuous Integration tools** thanks to TestNG Java unit test framework
- Possibility to compare data between **two different database engines** even for huge data sets 
without "Out of memory problem" thanks to incremental solution, more details [here](https://github.com/ObjectivityLtd/DBTestCompare/wiki/Fetch)
- Possibility to compare data in **one database engine in the fastest way** using MINUS/EXCEPT Sql operator, more details [here](https://github.com/ObjectivityLtd/DBTestCompare/wiki/Minus)
- **No need to compile program** in order to add new tests - thanks to Test Adapter DataDriven mechanism from TestNG 
- Possibility to **execute test in parallel** by setting Threads parameter in connection file.
- Possibility to build **multilevel tests structure**
- Possibility to **save query results to flat files**
- Real time test execution progress in **TeamCity**, more details [here](https://github.com/ObjectivityLtd/DBTestCompare/wiki/Real-time-test-execution-progress-in-TeamCity)
- Possibility to store Queries in **separated files or inline** in xml test definitions, more details [here](https://github.com/ObjectivityLtd/DBTestCompare/wiki/Storing-queries-in-separated-files-or-inline-in-xml-test-definitions)
- **Connection pool** used for executing tests - connections to databases are not closed 
after each tests, but when all tests are finished
- Possibility to compare query to **expected data defined in csv file**, more details [here](https://github.com/ObjectivityLtd/DBTestCompare/wiki/FILE)
- Possibility to compare query to **expected number of rows** defined in XML test definition, more details [here](https://github.com/ObjectivityLtd/DBTestCompare/wiki/NMB_OF_RESULTS)
- Possibility to **choose exit code** in case  of test failure
- Possibility to **connect to OLAP - compare mdx queries**, more details [here](https://github.com/ObjectivityLtd/DBTestCompare/wiki/OLAP)
- Possibility to define **"delta"** precision of comparing floating point numbers
- Possibility to **filter tests** for execution by including or excluding, more details [here](https://github.com/ObjectivityLtd/DBTestCompare/wiki/Filtering-tests-for-execution-by-including-or-excluding)
- Standard **TestNG html test report** in "test-output" folder, more details [here](https://github.com/ObjectivityLtd/DBTestCompare/wiki/Test-results---TestNG-html-report-in-%22test-output%22-folder)

Program searches for tests definitions by default in folder "test-definitions".

JDBC drivers must be present in "jdbc_drivers" folder.
Licensed database drivers are NOT included, only open source like MySQL, MariaDB and PostgreSQL. 
Download licensed database drivers from the producer of database e.g. Microsoft and put them in "jdbc_drivers" folder (on the same level as *.jar file). 

More details [here](https://github.com/ObjectivityLtd/DBTestCompare/wiki/Deploying-licensed-jdbc-drivers-(not-open-source))

You can override some of the application configuration properties, run app with:

 -DtestsDir=path             -set tests directory (default: test-definitions)
 
 -DteamcityLogsEnabled=true  -log test output in TeamCity format
 
 -DfilterInclude=a.b,g.z.f   -comma separated directories or test files which you want to include
 
 -DfilterExclude=a.b.test    -comma separated directories or test files which you want to exclude

for example:

```
java -DtestsDir=my_tests -jar DBTestCompare-1.0-SNAPSHOT-jar-with-dependencies.jar
```
More details [here](https://github.com/ObjectivityLtd/DBTestCompare/wiki/Command-line-parameters)

3'rd party libraries:
Software:
- SIROCCO :: Text Table Formatter
- Apache Log4j
- com.sun.xml.bind :: JAXB Runtime
- com.mchange :: c3p0 - a JDBC Connection pooling / Statement caching library

More details [here](https://github.com/ObjectivityLtd/DBTestCompare/blob/master/LICENSE-3RD-PARTY)

#### Where to start?
-------------
- See [Getting started](https://github.com/ObjectivityLtd/DBTestCompare/wiki/Getting-started).

Checkout the code or get compiled jar file from [releases page](https://github.com/ObjectivityLtd/DBTestCompare/releases)

-------------

To compile app to runnable fat jar file, run (Maven must be installed first):
```
mvn clean compile assembly:single
```
jar will be created in target directory.

-------------

You can manage application by attached ANT (ANT must be installed first) build.xml file (in folder \deploy), script allows to :

-compile app

-replace tokens in connection definition  

-replace tokens in SQL queries

more details [here](https://github.com/ObjectivityLtd/DBTestCompare/wiki/Compiling,-replacing-tokens-in-connection-definition) and  [here](https://github.com/ObjectivityLtd/DBTestCompare/wiki/Replacing-tokens-in-SQL-queries)

Commit message:

Update ContactType_REMOVE_LEADING_ZEROS test

README.md, after:

<img src="images/DBTestCompare.png" alt="DBTestCompare" width="200">

**Application to compare results of two SQL queries** 

[![Build Status](https://dev.azure.com/DBTestCompare/Build/_apis/build/status/ObjectivityLtd.DBTestCompare)](https://dev.azure.com/DBTestCompare/Build/_build?definitionId=1&_a=summary)
[![Azure DevOps tests](https://img.shields.io/azure-devops/tests/DBTestCompare/Build/1?compact_message)](https://dev.azure.com/DBTestCompare/Build/_build?definitionId=1&_a=summary)


It reads tests definitions in XML format form [specified directory](https://github.com/ObjectivityLtd/DBTestCompare/tree/master/test-definitions) and than runs them (as TestNG test). 

If two SQL returns different results -> test fails. 

Application [supports TeamCity](https://github.com/ObjectivityLtd/DBTestCompare/wiki/Real-time-test-execution-progress-in-TeamCity) Service Messages ([##teamcity messages](https://confluence.jetbrains.com/display/TCD8/Build+Script+Interaction+with+TeamCity)) so if teamcityLogsEnabled is set to "true" (config file or command line parameter), you will see nice test tree in TeamCity logs.

To execute tests run program (Java 8 must be installed first (JDK or JRE)):

If you set JAVA_HOME variable:
```
java -jar DBTestCompare-1.0-SNAPSHOT-jar-with-dependencies.jar
```
or to add automatically all drivers from the directory to the classspath (jdbc_drivers/*)
```
java -cp DBTestCompare-1.0-SNAPSHOT-jar-with-dependencies.jar:jdbc_drivers/* uk.co.objectivity.test.db.RunTests
```

or e.g.
```
"C:\Program Files\Java\jdk1.8.0_92\bin\java" -jar DBTestCompare-1.0-SNAPSHOT-jar-with-dependencies.jar
```

Application provides following features:
- **Platform independence** - possibility to run on Windows and Linux as well (Java Runtime Environment 8 needed)
- Supports **all databases with JDBC drivers provided** (tested with Microsoft SQL Server, Teradata, Snowflake, PostgreSQL and MySQL\MariaDB)
- Supports **all Continuous Integration tools** thanks to TestNG Java unit test framework
- Possibility to compare data between **two different database engines** even for huge data sets 
- Possibility to compare query to **expected data defined in csv file** and generating **Excel test raport**, more details [here](https://github.com/ObjectivityLtd/DBTestCompare/wiki/KEY)
without "Out of memory problem" thanks to incremental solution, more details [here](https://github.com/ObjectivityLtd/DBTestCompare/wiki/Fetch)
- Possibility to compare data in **one database engine in the fastest way** using MINUS/EXCEPT Sql operator, more details [here](https://github.com/ObjectivityLtd/DBTestCompare/wiki/Minus)
- **No need to compile program** in order to add new tests - thanks to Test Adapter DataDriven mechanism from TestNG 
- Possibility to **execute test in parallel** by setting Threads parameter in connection file.
- Possibility to build **multilevel tests structure**
- Possibility to **save query results to flat files**
- Real time test execution progress in **TeamCity**, more details [here](https://github.com/ObjectivityLtd/DBTestCompare/wiki/Real-time-test-execution-progress-in-TeamCity)
- Possibility to store Queries in **separated files or inline** in xml test definitions, more details [here](https://github.com/ObjectivityLtd/DBTestCompare/wiki/Storing-queries-in-separated-files-or-inline-in-xml-test-definitions)
- **Connection pool** used for executing tests - connections to databases are not closed 
after each tests, but when all tests are finished
- Possibility to compare query to **expected data defined in csv file**, more details [here](https://github.com/ObjectivityLtd/DBTestCompare/wiki/FILE)
- Possibility to compare query to **expected number of rows** defined in XML test definition, more details [here](https://github.com/ObjectivityLtd/DBTestCompare/wiki/NMB_OF_RESULTS)
- Possibility to **choose exit code** in case  of test failure
- Possibility to **connect to OLAP - compare mdx queries**, more details [here](https://github.com/ObjectivityLtd/DBTestCompare/wiki/OLAP)
- Possibility to define **"delta"** precision of comparing floating point numbers
- Possibility to **filter tests** for execution by including or excluding, more details [here](https://github.com/ObjectivityLtd/DBTestCompare/wiki/Filtering-tests-for-execution-by-including-or-excluding)
- Standard **TestNG html test report** in "test-output" folder, more details [here](https://github.com/ObjectivityLtd/DBTestCompare/wiki/Test-results---TestNG-html-report-in-%22test-output%22-folder)

Program searches for tests definitions by default in folder "test-definitions".

JDBC drivers must be present in "jdbc_drivers" folder.
Licensed database drivers are NOT included, only open source like MySQL, MariaDB and PostgreSQL. 
Download licensed database drivers from the producer of database e.g. Microsoft and put them in "jdbc_drivers" folder (on the same level as *.jar file). 

More details [here](https://github.com/ObjectivityLtd/DBTestCompare/wiki/Deploying-licensed-jdbc-drivers-(not-open-source))

You can override some of the application configuration properties, run app with:

 -DtestsDir=path             -set tests directory (default: test-definitions)
 
 -DteamcityLogsEnabled=true  -log test output in TeamCity format
 
 -DfilterInclude=a.b,g.z.f   -comma separated directories or test files which you want to include
 
 -DfilterExclude=a.b.test    -comma separated directories or test files which you want to exclude

for example:

```
java -DtestsDir=my_tests -jar DBTestCompare-1.0-SNAPSHOT-jar-with-dependencies.jar
```
More details [here](https://github.com/ObjectivityLtd/DBTestCompare/wiki/Command-line-parameters)

3'rd party libraries:
Software:
- SIROCCO :: Text Table Formatter
- Apache Log4j
- com.sun.xml.bind :: JAXB Runtime
- com.mchange :: c3p0 - a JDBC Connection pooling / Statement caching library

More details [here](https://github.com/ObjectivityLtd/DBTestCompare/blob/master/LICENSE-3RD-PARTY)

#### Where to start?
-------------
- See [Getting started](https://github.com/ObjectivityLtd/DBTestCompare/wiki/Getting-started).

Checkout the code or get compiled jar file from [releases page](https://github.com/ObjectivityLtd/DBTestCompare/releases)

-------------

To compile app to runnable fat jar file, run (Maven must be installed first):
```
mvn clean compile assembly:single
```
jar will be created in target directory.

-------------

You can manage application by attached ANT (ANT must be installed first) build.xml file (in folder \deploy), script allows to :

-compile app

-replace tokens in connection definition  

-replace tokens in SQL queries

more details [here](https://github.com/ObjectivityLtd/DBTestCompare/wiki/Compiling,-replacing-tokens-in-connection-definition) and  [here](https://github.com/ObjectivityLtd/DBTestCompare/wiki/Replacing-tokens-in-SQL-queries)
